As an illustration, when 1,500 senior business leaders in the United States in 2017 were asked about AI, only 17 percent said they were familiar with it. Most people are not very familiar with the concept of artificial intelligence (AI). They understood there was considerable potential for altering business processes, but were not clear how AI could be deployed within their own organizations. A number of them were not sure what it was or how it would affect their particular companies. It is a wide-ranging tool that enables people to rethink how we integrate information, analyze data, and use the resulting insights to improve decisionmaking. Despite its widespread lack of familiarity, AI is a technology that is transforming every walk of life. In this paper, we discuss novel applications in finance, national security, health care, criminal justice, transportation, and smart cities, and address issues such as data access problems, algorithmic bias, AI ethics and transparency, and legal liability for AI decisions. Our hope through this comprehensive overview is to explain AI to an audience of policymakers, opinion leaders, and interested observers, and demonstrate how AI already is
    altering the world and raising important questions for society, the economy, and governance. In order to maximize AI benefits, we recommend nine steps for going forward: Encourage greater data access for researchers without compromising users’ personal privacy, invest more government funding in unclassified AI research, promote new models of digital education and AI workforce development so employees have the skills needed in the 21st-century economy, create a federal 
    AI advisory committee to make policy recommendations, engage with state and local officials so they enact effective policies, regulate broad AI principles rather than specific algorithms, take bias complaints seriously so AI does not replicate historic injustice, unfairness, or discrimination in data or algorithms, maintain mechanisms for human oversight and control, and penalize malicious AI behavior and promote cybersecurity. We contrast the regulatory approaches of the U.S. and European Union, and close by making a number of recommendations for getting the most out of AI while still protecting important human values.